\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename ppp.info
@settitle PeePeePlayer manual 0.1.2
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for PeePeePlayer, version 0.1.2.

Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Steffen Ohrendorf.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title PeePeePlayer manual
@subtitle for version 0.1.2
@author Steffen Ohrendorf

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

Published by Steffen Ohrendorf.
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@dircategory Multimedia
@direntry
* PeePeePlayer (ppp).       The PeePeePlayer manual
@end direntry

@node Top
@top PeePeePlayer manual

This manual is for PeePeePlayer, version 0.1.2.
@end ifnottex

@ifset man
@c man begin SYNOPSIS
ppp [@b{options}] @file{modfile}
@c man end
@end ifset

@c man begin DESCRIPTION
@command{ppp} plays ScreamTracker 3 and FastTracker 2 modules
and is able to convert them to @acronym{MP3, @acronym{MPEG, Motion Picture Experts Group} Layer 3} files.
@c man end

@menu
* Invoking:: Invoking PeePeePlayer
* Usage:: Using the @abbr{GUI}
* GNU Free Documentation License:: Your rights and permissions
* Index:: The complete index
@end menu

@node Invoking
@chapter Invoking
@pindex ppp
@cindex Invoking @command{ppp}

@c man begin DESCRIPTION
The @command{ppp} program can be invoked in the following ways.
@c man end

@cindex command line
@cindex options
@c man begin OPTIONS
The PeePeePlayer supports several options for configuring
its behaviour.

The simpliest way of invoking it is
@smallexample
ppp @file{modulefile}
@end smallexample

This tells @command{ppp} to try to load the file @file{modulefile},
to preprocess it, then to initialize its audio and video subsystems
and finally start playing it.

Another small example which instructs PeePeePlayer to convert a
module file to an @acronym{MP3} file without showing up a window:
@smallexample
ppp -nq @file{modulefile}
@end smallexample

Here's the table of the available command line options:
@table @option
@kindex -v
@kindex --verbose
@item -v
@itemx --verbose
This option increases the message level so that, additionally
to errors, also warnings will be printed.

@kindex -V
@kindex --very-verbose
@item -V
@itemx --very-verbose
This option increases the message level so that, additionally
to errors and warnings, also status and debug messages will
be printed.

@kindex -n
@kindex --no-gui
@item -n
@itemx --no-gui
This option disables the @abbr{GUI} window of @command{ppp}.

When using this option, you may also want to use @option{--very-verbose}.

@kindex -q
@kindex --quick-mp3
@item -q
@itemx --quick-mp3
This option enables the @acronym{MP3} conversion. This will produce
a @acronym{MP3} file which's name is derived from the input file
by appending @file{.mp3} to the input filename.

The command line
@smallexample
ppp -q ~/Music/module.s3m
@end smallexample
would produce a file @file{~/Music/module.s3m.mp3}.

Please note that an existing @acronym{MP3} file will @emph{not} be
overwritten.

@end table

On Linux, you may convert a folder of @abbr{S3M} files with the
following command line:
@smallexample
for FN in *.s3m; do ppp -Vnq $FN; done
@end smallexample
The option @option{-V} is used here because the option
@option{-n} disables the @abbr{GUI}, so you can see
if PeePeePlayer may have encountered a bug that causes
it to hang.
@c man end

@node Usage
@chapter Usage
@cindex Usage
The following table lists the available keyboard commands
for the @abbr{GUI}.

@table @kbd
@item Page up
@kindex Page up
@kindex PgUp
Jump to the previous order.

@item Page down
@kindex Page down
@kindex PgDn
Jump to the next order.

@item Home
@kindex Home
Jump to the previous song in a multi-song module.

@item End
@kindex End
Jump to the next song in a multi-song module

@item Space
@kindex Space
Pauses or resumes playback.

@item Esc
@kindex Esc
Exit PeePeePlayer.

@end table

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl.texi

@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp
@bye

